# How does SSH work?
When connected via SSH, you will be put into a shell session, which is a text based interface where you can interact with your server. For the duration of your SSH session, any command you type on your local terminal will send an encrypted SSH tunnel path and run on your server. The SSH connection is implemented using a client-server model. This means that to establish an SSH connection, the remote machine must run software called an SSH daemon. This software listens for connections on a specific network point, authenticates connection requests and the right environment if the user provides the correct credentials. The user's computer must have an SSH client. This is software that knows how to communicate using the SSH protocol and can receive information about the remote host to use, the username to use, and the credentials to pass to authenticate. The customer can also specify details about the type of connection they would like to establish.

# How do users authenticate in SSH?
Clients usually authenticate using passwords (less strong and not recommended) or SSH keys, which are very strong. Password logins are encrypted and easy for new users to understand. However, automated bots and malicious users often try to repeatedly authenticate themselves on accounts that have password-selected logins, which can lead to security compromises. For this reason, we recommend that you always configure SSH key-based authentication for most configurations.
SSH keys are a matching set of cryptographic keys that can be used for authentication. Each set contains a public and a private key. The public key can be freely shared without concern, while the private key must be guarded and never exposed to anyone.
To authenticate the use of SSH keys, a user must have an SSH key pair on their local computer. On the remote server, the public key must copy to a file inside the user's home directory at ~ / .ssh / Authorized_keys. This file contains a list of public keys, one per line, that are authorized to log into this account.
When a client connects to the host and wishes to use SSH key authentication, it informs the server of this intention and indicates what public key it should use. Then the server checks your authorized key file for the public key, generates a random string and encrypts it using the public key. This encrypted message can only decrypt with associated private key. The server sending this encrypted message to the client to test if they really have the associated private key. Upon receiving the message, the client decrypts the private key and combines the revealed string with a previously negotiated session ID. Then it generates an MD5 hash of this value and transmits it back to the server. The server already had the original msg and session ID, so you can compare an MD5 hash generated by those values ​​and determine that the client must have the private key.

